WHAT IS THE NEED FOR DEVOPS?
:-In IT Industry Two of an organization’s most vital teams—software development and
 IT operations—struggled to communicate effectively. It was sooner realised that due to this 
 productivity has decreased. To overcome this DEV0PS comes in picture.

WHAT IS DEVOPS ?(software engineering methodology0
:- DevOps is a combination of software development (dev) and operations (ops). 
It is defined as a software engineering methodology which aims to integrate 
the work of development teams and operations teams by facilitating a culture
of collaboration and shared responsibility.
(software devlopment ke andar ek process or concept of  application release users tak kaise pautche iss  poori prossess ko devops kaha gaya hai)

DEVOPS LIFE-CYCLE

1)PLAN :- In this stage, teams identify the business requirement and collect end-user feedback.
          They create a project roadmap to maximize the business value and deliver the desired product 
 during this stage.

2)CODE :- The code development takes place at this stage. The development teams use some tools
        and plugins like Git to streamline the development process, which helps them avoid security flaws
 and lousy coding practices.
 
  a)source code</> :- Version control, also known as source control, is the practice of tracking and
                      managing changes to software code.
					  
  b)version control :- Version control, also known as source control, is the practice of tracking 
                      and managing changes to software code.
  
3)BUILD :-In this stage, once developers finish their task, they commit the code to the shared code
          repository using build tools like Maven and Gradle.
		  
   a)devlopment :-development is about development of product and services with design, implementation , documentation etc.
   
   b)automation :- Automation is the use of technology to perform tasks with reduced human assistance.
   
4)TEST :-Once the build is ready, it is deployed to the test environment first to perform several types
         of testing like user acceptance test, security test, integration testing, performance testing, etc., 
         using tools like JUnit, Selenium, etc., to ensure software quality.
 
   a)quality control:-Quality control is the process of testing software intensive systems to uncover defects 
                      and hence measuring actual quality.
   
5)RELEASE :- The build is ready to deploy on the production environment at this phase. Once the build 
             passes all tests, the operations team schedules the releases or deploys multiple releases to production,
depending on the organizational needs.

6)DEPLOY :-In this stage, Infrastructure-as-Code helps build the production environment and then 
           releases the build with the help of different tools.
		   
         a) infrastructure as code :-Infrastructure as code (IaC) uses DevOps methodology and versioning with 
                             a descriptive model to define and deploy infrastructure, such as networks, virtual machines, 
                             load balancers, and connection topologies.
							 
         b) provisioning :-Provisioning is the process of creating and setting up IT infrastructure, 
                    and includes the steps required to manage user and system access to various resources.
					
         c) configuration management :- Configuration Management is the process of maintaining systems, such as computer hardware and software, 
                                 in a desired state. Configuration Management (CM) is also a method of ensuring that systems perform in 
								 a manner consistent with expectations over time.
								 
7)OPERATE :-The release is live now to use by customers. The operations team at this stage takes care of 
            server configuring and provisioning using tools like Chef.
       a)virtualization :- Virtualization refers to the process of using software to create a virtual resource that runs on a 
                      layer separate from the physical hardware.
					  
       b)containerization :- Containerization is when developers bundle a program’s code and all of the other components it needs to run into a single package. 
                        The advantage is that containerized applications need fewer resources to run and are easy to deploy in new environments.
  
8)MONITOR :- In this stage, the DevOps pipeline is monitored based on data collected from customer behavior, 
             application performance, etc. Monitoring the entire environment helps teams find the bottlenecks 
			 impacting the development and operations teams’ productivity.

           a)logging :-Logging refers to the process of ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of logs generated by DevOps tools and processes.
   
           b)visualizations :-Visualization tools provide context and meaning, allow you to track changes and improvements over time and give management a real-time view 
   
   continuous integration /continuous deployment (CI/CD)